---
title: 'Working with Satellite Data from ERDDAP with Python'
date: 2021-08-14
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Data Science
  - Earth Observation
  - Remote Sensing
  - GIS
---
## Introduction
This tutorial will show the steps to grab data from ERDDAP server using an Xarray Python library, how to work with NetCDF files in Python and how to make some graphs. There are many scientific data servers available in the world that provide satellite data with their own formatting, downloading, and subsetting protocals. However, this may pose a big challenge for biginners to choose a consistent and reliable server. By Using erddap server may fills the gap and unify the advantages in a single service. Thus, users may request data from remote servers like OpeNDap, OBIS, e.t.c., and obtain in the format that requested. Alaso, erddap supports different file formats such as html table, ESRI .asc and .csv, Google Earth .kml, OPeNDAP binary, .mat, .nc, ODV .txt, .csv, .tsv, .json, and .xhtml, and even some image formats (.png and .pdf).

#### Use an erddap link to generate a URL for downloading netCDF data.
Click the link:[NOAA Coastalwatch-erddap](https://coastwatch.pfeg.noaa.gov/data.html) and then select satellite data from a global single sensor, a gap-filled, blended, or multiple-sensors, or a long-time series of interest. Then you'll be taken to a page where you can draw a graph or use the data access form tab to specify the data time range as well as the latitude and longitude. Finally, choose the file type (with.nc) and click on just generate the URL

#### Import the required python packages
```python
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import urllib.request 
import xarray as xr 
import netCDF4 as nc

url="https://coastwatch.pfeg.noaa.gov/erddap/griddap/jplMURSST41mday.nc?sst%5B(2017-06-16T00:00:00Z):1:(2022-06-16T00:00:00Z)%5D%5B(-10.6):1:(-4.5)%5D%5B(38.5):1:(40.5)%5D" 
urllib.request.urlretrieve(url, "sst.nc")
```





