---
title: "A deep learning model for detecting Seagrass from Unnamed Aerial Vehicles (UAV) imagery"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2012-03-01-talk-2
venue: "University of Western Australia, Indian Ocean Marine Research Centre (IOMRC)"
date: 2021-07-01
location: "IORA Blue Carbon Hub, Australia"
---

The study was focused on revealing the potential of an artificial deep neural network to detect two seagrass species, Enhalus acoroides and Halophila ovalis. The research project aimed to develop a seagrass detection model from UAV data. The study explores the potential of artificial deep neural networks and unnamed aerial vehicle (UAV) imagery. The UAVs’ images are capable of acquiring fine resolution with more features, including pattern, texture, and locations. These features can be easily extracted and detected by using deep learning algorithms. The project selected the “You Only Look Once” (YOLO) algorithm to train and validate the model. The YOLOv5 algorithm was selected because it has proven to be one of the most versatile and well-known object detection models, and it is also very fast compared to previous deep learning object detection models. The YOLOv5 model was trained using pre-trained convolutional weights, and the testing part was done by selecting the best weights generated during the training phase. The experimental findings show that the YOLOv5 algorithm has achieved the following metrics on seagrass detection: a mean average precision (mAP) of 37.1%, a precision of 40.2%, and a recall of 44.3%. From this study, results show that seagrass detection from UAV data and deep learning techniques is possible. The YOLOv5 has demonstrated state-of-the-art accuracy to detect Enhalus acoroides and Halophila ovalis seagrass species.
