---
title: "Using a machine learning approach for examining the impact of rising sea levels on mangrove species distribution in the Bay of Bengal, Bangladesh"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2012-03-01-talk-2
venue: "University of Western Australia (UWA), Indian Ocean Marine Research Centre (IOMRC)"
date: 2021-07-01
location: "IORA Blue Carbon Hub, Australia"
---

The main goal of my study was to examine the impact of rising sea levels on mangrove species distribution in the Sundarbans. To be able to assess the impact of sea level rise on mangrove species distributions, a variety of datasets are needed, such as mangrove species and their spatial distribution, salinity, tidal statistics, and more. First, we need to understand the past and present mangrove species in the study area and prepare a base spatial distribution map for mangrove species. For that purpose, a remote sensing application was applied to identify the mangrove species from the recently available dense series of multi-temporal Sentinel-2 data. Machine learning techniques were applied using supervised classification with classical algorithms to identify different mangrove species. Ultimately, the random forest approach provided greater precision. In collaboration with scientists from Bangladesh and Australia, we developed the methodology for preparing the spatial mangrove species map. From the result, we found that about 15% of the distribution of Heritiera fomes (the dominant species in the Sundarbans) will be affected and about 5% of the distribution of Excoecaria agallocha will be affected by a projected 92-cm sea level rise. Ceriops decandra and Sonneratia apelatala species have a higher salinity tolerance (24 to 28 ppt) and are less affected. In the future, river salinization in the eastern part of the Sundarbans will significantly reduce the highest-valued timber species, Heritiera fomes. The species composition will likely shift to higher salinity-tolerant mangrove species like Ceriops decandra and Sonneratia apelatala. To validate the mangrove species map, various global and local mangrove datasets were collected.
